Welcome back.
Lets go ahead and take a look at
arrays of structures.
In the previous example,
we set the values of attributes
for b1.
Variable one by one.
We type in b1.ID equals zero.
b1.name= I don't know
the name of the book etc.
But here,
we can see something completely
different.
So, we have created a variable
of type Book.
We have just named it book1.
I could have
just as well named it
b1
it doesn't matter, I just typed
in.
So, sorry.
It could have been b1.
But I could have typed,
I'm going to use
book1.
No big deal.
Same thing.
Just different variable name.
And then I began intializing it,
initializing its attributes
one by one.
So let's have a look.
ID
ID will be zero.
Name of the book,
well I've literally placed
the name of the book
to be name of the book.
Author,
I don't know, Unknown Author.
And then we have
an attribute which is actually
a structure here.
And that should be published,
which is of type date and
date is a structure here.
And then
I needed this variable.
I needed a variable which had
all the attributes initialized,
through which all the
attributes are initialized.
So,
dt, date for book1.
Okay, dt for book1.
And here you see the single
line initialization
or the short initialization.
Well it's
maybe not shorter or
one line or whatever
but it's definitely more practical
than typing in
b1.id, b1.name,
b1
.author, b1.count, etc.
This is far more
convenient, so.
1,
2,
3,
so,
what do I get here?
Day, month, year
so it's 10th of the 10th of 2016.
That's what I chose as a date.
And then for book2, again,
some random date.
It's the 11th of the 11th of 2011.
So just two
variables.
And
then I'd use
this variable
with all the attributes initialized
and I have placed
placed it here.
So,
that the variable
would book1
would have all the attributes
initialized
including
the one of
the one of type date.
And that type date would
have all the
the type date
variable published
would have all the elements,
all the attributes intialized from the
like the day, month, year.
So that could be printed
out as well. Now,
hopefully this is clear.
So this is how you can
initialize them.
It's far more convenient
to do it this way.
Down below
you have
basically this array that
I talked about.
So this is basically
array
books. It's not really that
much different from a regular
type array.
No big deal.
So, look.
Here I have book.
Type book and then the
variable book1.
Here again I have typed
book
and the variable actually here this
time it's books.
And I am basically the
books, that's the array and
I am giving it a size of
100.
And it looks pretty much the same
as a regular array.
No difference there,
pretty much this is the
first elements so,
the second element would
be like 1, 2
3, 4.
No big deal you could
just list them
on and until you reach
the end of the array.
No big deal.
This is how you would
intialize
these elements,
these attributes.
The syntax
there is, I mean, the syntax
is an array, it's pretty much,
as the regular array,
it's pretty much
the same, that's what
I want to say.
And this is how you would
initialize them. So the ID
of
let's say the third book,
is 10.
Third because it's zero,
one, two.
That's what we learned
about the arrays.
The count begins from zero.
So the ID
of the third book
is 10.
The author
of
the,
of the
15th book
is
tralalalala,
so that's
the name of the author,
imaginary name
I might add.
So the author of the
14th book would be tralala.
And the ID of the second
book would be 10.
And this is how you
would access those
attributes and this is
how you would
basically,
I don't know just explained it
through your print out,
how you would access them
to actually print them out.
And let's go ahead and
build and run this.
And you will see 10 and tralala.
Simple as that.
I mean no big deal,
there isn't that much difference
from this standard,
regular arrays
that we have
learned about
actually,
to me this part is more
interesting up here
as opposed to this one.
Because there is nothing really
that much different here.
In conclusion,
structures
are powerful abstraction tools
in programming.
Say we have to keep information
about
100 books,
without structures we
would have to have like
separate
not only without structures but
without
arrays of structures
you would have something
like this. You would
like int
Id
ooops,
IDs
and then you would
create some sort of
an array here.
And these would be the
IDs for 100 books.
And then you would have
to have another array for
names
and another name for
authors and another name
for
date, etc.
But the array for date would be
like would be like the array for day
and then the array for
month and then the array
for year
so that would make the draw
a lot difficult
because look, it would be like this.
int
year
100 and then you would
have int
day
100 and then you would have
int
month
100 and so on and so forth.
You would have
a ton load of these variables,
they would be on end.
But like this, we can
save a lot of time
by just having one array here
instead of having all of
these arrays here,
a lot easier.
But with structures,
as I said here,
there is only one variable
array
and
there you go.
You don't need all of these,
you can just have one of these.
And that's it and then
you can have
the list of attributes here
and then you can have
an array here
so you can keep records
for thousands and thousands
and thousands of books.
And there is only one array
which you actually need
to modify and not
a hundred of them.
A lot simpler, right?
Hopefully.
Yes.
Anyway.
I bid you farewell here.
Wish you a ton load of luck with this.
Anything that you wish
to ask, feel free
to go to the Q&A section.
If you need tech support,
go to the Q&A section.
If you want to ask me
something personally,
feel free to send me a PM.
I try to read all the messages
and I really do try to answer
them all. If by some crazy chance
I missed you or
I fail to provide you
with answers,
just send me another
message because I probably
didn't see it
or something like that happened
or I accidentally skipped it,
for that I am sorry
if it happens.
Anyway, as I said,
for anything that's
not clear,
please feel free to go
to the Q&A section.
Now we're going to wrap
this tutorial up
and go to the next chapter.